## Idea: Mankind follows the development of a man

Man was born around 6000 BC, an infant. For many years he roamed the earth and foraged, making little of his surrounds other than to discover things and toy with them. Few things were truly constructed or put together; he was fundamentally passive. Like a baby that crawls around a room and stumbles upon things to suck on, so men roamed the earth.

In the slightly less ancient past, men were as toddlers. Still very dependent on the Gods, didn't do much for themselves, interested in constructing towers and playthings. Made friends with beast and bush, played in the mud. They followed where their passions led them (Homer), picked up sticks and fought the neighbor kids in many petty tribal wars.

Socrates was early adolescence. Mankind starts questioning everything, starts to peer into the nature of things. At the same time, starts to throw off the old guard; his hackles go up at his parents, religion.

Christ coming was our coming of age. The greatest turning point of the world. New things are revealed and much of childhood is thrown off. Our purpose was seen and defined, but like everyone coming of age it isn’t smooth. We push against it even though we know it’s true.

We are in young adulthood. Beginning to reach for the stars but still stuck in the follies of doubt and unbelief. We know more than the ancients but are still very young in our knowledge. We still don’t fully know how we ourselves work. We know enough to be resentful of our past ignorance, but not enough to see the merits of our fathers’ blind faith.

In the near future comes manhood. We rule the stars, our bodies, nature herself. And as our knowledge and dominion of nature grows, so our true knowledge of things grows, and like a man who sees the wisdom of his father’s rod and the memory becomes sweet to him, so the memory of the ancient childishness will seem sweet and the wisdom of that obedience will be recognized. We will find that many, many things the ancients did in blind obedience was actually truly beneficial to them. What was done in rote will be done with reason, but not despising the youngness of our ancient fathers. We will work tirelessly among the stars, lay the foundations of great empires. Great mistakes will be made but everything will be done with a young energy.

Then will come middle age. Many arts and sciences will reach their peek of development. The pinnacle of many nations and achievements will be realized, and we will be very busy with a great number of practical matters, the management of the many things that our younger vigor built. The days of our childhood will seem very, very far. Sometimes on a quiet evening men will think of it, but in the way that every man does who has no time. He will wish that he had the time to remember, and then there will be another star to resuscitate.

Finally, old age shall come upon us. And nature, our companion of many years, will show her age as well. She will fail us and we will fail her, but we will understand each other. We will withdraw our broad influence and rest in the home that we have built for ourselves to watch the sunset. In this time, we will feel very close to our youth again, and all minds will turn back over the ages to when we first built towers and monuments and temples and gardens. In the absence of business and grand doings, the sunny old mind of mankind will run back long over the world and the years of men, and it will think on all the things that it has seen since time first dawned. It will dwell on the mistakes and triumphs of the past with equal sweetness, and will understand them. And as the sunset comes and the sun of the universe gets lower on the zenith of time, we will feel a great contentment with the lot our God has given us, but also a great longing for the coming world, to be young again. We will feel that fascination with bugs and dirt and towers again, to scratch the earth and make bricks, to plant seeds, to take up swords. But further and further we will withdraw into the heart of what we have built, as heat decay eats the edges inward. And it will not be sad, but golden, and many songs will be remembered, and their tunes and times relived. 

And in a breath, man and nature, those age old friends, will end their time in Westerness together, and join their maker hand in hand.